# BIOMD0000000444: MODEL1112190007

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000444.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000444.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Sarma2012 - Oscillations in MAPK cascade (S2n)

Two plausible designs (S1 and S2) of coupled positive and negative feedback
loops of MAPK cascade has been described in this paper. Further these models
were extended to S1n and S2n, to incorporate the nuclear-cytoplasmic
translocation of the MK layer components of the cascade. This model
corresponds to model S2n that comprises negative feedback from MK-PP to MKK-PP
layer coupled to positive feedback from MK-PP to MKKK-PP layer, with the
inclusion of nuclear-cytoplasmic translocation.

This model is described in the article:

[Oscillations in MAPK cascade triggered by two distinct designs of coupled
positive and negative feedback loops.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22694947)

Sarma U, Ghosh I.

BMC Res Notes. 2012 Jun 13;5:287.

Abstract:

BACKGROUND:  
Feedback loops, both positive and negative are embedded in the Mitogen
Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) cascade. In the three layer MAPK cascade, both
feedback loops originate from the terminal layer and their sites of action are
either of the two upstream layers. Recent studies have shown that the cascade
uses coupled positive and negative feedback loops in generating oscillations.
Two plausible designs of coupled positive and negative feedback loops can be
elucidated from the literature; in one design the positive feedback precedes
the negative feedback in the direction of signal flow and vice-versa in
another. But it remains unexplored how the two designs contribute towards
triggering oscillations in MAPK cascade. Thus it is also not known how
amplitude, frequency, robustness or nature (analogous/digital) of the
oscillations would be shaped by these two designs.

RESULTS:  
We built two models of MAPK cascade that exhibited oscillations as function of
two underlying designs of coupled positive and negative feedback loops.
Frequency, amplitude and nature (digital/analogous) of oscillations were found
to be differentially determined by each design. It was observed that the
positive feedback emerging from an oscillating MAPK cascade and functional in
an external signal processing module can trigger oscillations in the target
module, provided that the target module satisfy certain parametric
requirements. The augmentation of the two models was done to incorporate the
nuclear-cytoplasmic shuttling of cascade components followed by induction of a
nuclear phosphatase. It revealed that the fate of oscillations in the MAPK
cascade is governed by the feedback designs. Oscillations were unaffected due
to nuclear compartmentalization owing to one design but were completely
abolished in the other case.

CONCLUSION:  
The MAPK cascade can utilize two distinct designs of coupled positive and
negative feedback loops to trigger oscillations. The amplitude, frequency and
robustness of the oscillations in presence or absence of nuclear
compartmentalization were differentially determined by two designs of coupled
positive and negative feedback loops. A positive feedback from an oscillating
MAPK cascade was shown to induce oscillations in an external signal processing
module, uncovering a novel regulatory aspect of MAPK signal processing.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1112190007](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1112190007) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


